KEP-2535: (Ensure Secret Pulled Images): add metrics, bump to beta in 1.34 (#5371)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/2535-ensure-secret-pulled-images/README.md

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

Enabling the feature will make the kubelet expose several metrics:
- each caching layers should provide the following:
    - `<cache_name>_<pullintents/pulledrecords>_total` gauge for the number of records (e.g. files, keys of a map)
      that are kept in the cache
- `image_mustpull_checks_total` counter vector tracks how many times the check for
  image pull credentials was called
  - labels:
    - `result`:

>       - "policyAllowed" for cases where the kubelet's pull policy allows

Author: I might use the "credential" prefix instead if that's ok

>       - "policyAllowed" for cases where the kubelet's pull policy allows

Reviewer: does anonymous count as a credential .. :-)

>       - "policyAllowed" for cases where the kubelet's pull policy allows

Author: I'd say zero credentials might be considered a corner case for credentials :slightly_smiling_face:

        access to the image (e.g. via allowlist or to an image pre-pulled to the node)

>       - "recordFound" when a matching record was found in the cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - "verifyRecordFound" when a matching record was found in cache positively verifying access to an image
```

      - "mustRepull" when a new pull is required to access the image
      - "error" in error cases
- the `image_ensure_requests_total` counter vector tracks how many times EnsureImageExists()
  was called
  - labels:

>     - `pull_policy` - either of "never", "ifnotpresent" or "always", according to container's pull policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `pull_policy` - either of "never", "ifnotpresent" or "always", according to container image pull policy
```

    - `present_locally` - "true" if the image is present on the node, "false" if it isn't,
                          "unknown" if there was an error before this was determined

>     - `pull_required` - "true" if an image was requested to be pulled (e.g. from credential reverification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `access_authentication_required` - "true" if an image was requested to be pulled (e.g. from credential reverification
```

Author: This metric is not related to the credential verification check, but is run from the EnsureImageExists() function.
`pull_required` makes more sense here - it should automatically be true for images with the `Always` pull policy - these won't even go through the creds verification flow, and so we need to be a bit more generic.

                        mechanism or by the ImagePullPolicy from the Pod), "false" if not,
                        "unknown" if there was an error before this was determined

This will allow an admin to see how many reverification checks are being requested for existing images and how
many requests make it all the way to the persistent cache.

> 

Author: I think that perhaps that may not matter as much for observability of this feature but rather for observability of image pulls, which today is not great - we don't seem to track anything besides how long an image pull took, and that is also only tracked in case of a successful pull..

If we're to track the number of pulls per image until success, I think we can do that even outside this KEP. Would you agree?

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

Enabling the feature will make the kubelet expose several metrics:
- each caching layers should provide the following:
    - `<cache_name>_<pullintents/pulledrecords>_kept` gauge for the number of records (e.g. files, keys of a map)
      that are kept in the cache
    - `<cache_name>_<pullintents/pulledrecords>_get_requests_total` counter for the number of `Get()` requests
    - `<cache_name>_<pullintents/pulledrecords>_get_requests_miss` counter for the number of cache misses for the `Get()` operation

> - the `present_image_access_requests_total` counter tracks access requests for images that were already

Reviewer: Suggest Metrics For `imagePullCredentialsVerificationPolicy`
- `NeverVerify`  present_image_access_requests_total
   - **original behavior before this feature**
   - anyone on a node can use any image present on the node
   - Metric for present_image_used_with_never_verify_kubelet_policy_and_if_not_present_pull_policy 
   - *and_always_pull_policy
   - *and_never_pull_policy
- `NeverVerifyPreloadedImages`
   - **default value**
   - images that were pulled to the node by something else than the kubelet can be used without reverifying pull credentials
   - Metric for present_image_used_with_never_verify_preloaded_kubelet_policy_is_preloaded 
   - also shows never verify metrics 
- `NeverVerifyAllowlistedImages`
    - like `NeverVerifyPreloadedImages` but only node images from `preloadedImagesVerificationAllowlist` don't require reverification
    - Metric for present_image_used_with_never_verify_allowlisted_kubelet_policy_is_allowlisted 
    - also shows never verify metrics 
- `AlwaysVerify`
    - all images require credential reverification
    - Metric for present_image_reverified_with_allways_verifiy_kubelet_policy_and_if_not_present_pull_policy 
    - *and_always_pull_policy
    - *and_never_pull_policy

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

Exposing the size of memory that is allocated for the in-memory cache and all its
items would be a non-trivial task but it would help us with considerations about
how to structure the in-memory cache for a common production cluster.

> This missing metric should be replaced by using memory profiling during development.

Author: You're right - I removed the section and will keep that as a good practice that I should follow during the KEP implementation.
